Welcome back everyone in this lecture will be going through the solutions for the pandas exercises problems.
Let's open up the notebook and get started.
OK.
Here I am at the Pandurs exercise notebook.
We actually did the first two in the previous lecture importing pandas and reading in that CXXVI file.
So that issue the head of the data frame.
All you have to do is say thanks the head and you'll get back the first five rows so it looks like we
have a bank name column a city column a state column some sort of certification number column the acquiring
institution the closing day and then the updated date.
So we'll continue along and answer the rest of the questions.
What are the column names.
Well you can do that easily just by asking for banks columns and then you'll receive back all the column
names.
So hopefully the output that you saw there kind of hinted that you just wanted to call the columns.
You could also just grab this directly from viewing the data frame itself.
But you'll notice that if you had a bunch of columns here eventually you'll get some of them cut off
in the middle say dot dot dot.
So a good way to get all the column names just Bascombe for the attribute columns next question was
how many states are represented in this dataset.
The way you can do that is just ask for the s t.
That is the state's column and then call an unique on this.
Which brings back the number of unique states in this dataset which is 44 states to get a list of all
the states in the dataset where you end up doing is you copy the exact same code but instead of saying
number of unique just ask for unique itself and just return back an array of all the unique states in
this case the state codes themselves.
Now the question is What are the top five states with the most failed of banks.
There are lots and lots of ways you can answer this question are going to show you one method some one
layer method.
So first off we want to say what are the banks with top five states.
Which means we should probably group by the states and then do some sort of count.
So say Banks Group by as T and then do a count of this.
So if you do that you end up getting the states and then account for each single column.
So I notice that the numbers are all the same it kind of makes sense.
All the rows should be read the same way.
So count should return the same number regardless of what column you're calling here.
So right now we have all the states and how many failed banks they have.
The problem is it's not sorted.
So what we can do is sort it soon we're going to say sort's underscore values and I'm going to sort
by bank name and if you just do that you'll end up getting descending order so you could do it.
You could call the tail of this to see the bottom five and you can see it's Georgia Florida Illinois
California and Minnesota.
And that would essentially be your answer.
Now to get the exact answer I got here in this format you could continue along with this.
Instead of saying tale where you could do is say something like sending equals true.
And then there are excuse me sending calls false.
So that we see the very top ones.
So if something gives you false.
Now you see the top five right here.
And if you want to only get the top five then you could just say something like I see for integer location
and then say give me everything from the beginning up to five and then you get back this data frame.
If you still only want it not the entire data frame but just the single count.
You could just ask for any of these columns back so you could say something like at the very end of
this call.
Bank name and that's how you get the exact answer I got.
Now clearly you could get the answer just for a few of these steps sorting it asking for the tail.
It's really up to you if you want to continue by adding in ascending IOC and then bank name.
All right.
So that's how you can get the top five states the most failed banks.
Here they are as well as their numbers.
Now we want to know what are the top 5 acquiring institutions.
So that's kind of similar to that that you just asked Banks and then passen acquiring institution and
you could do something like value counts.
And if you get back value counts you'll end up getting in order sorted by the actual counts the acquiring
institutions and if you want the top five you could just say I'll go see everything up to five if you're
including no Choire as an institution that would be it.
If you don't want include that you do a top six and then get back this where I hear community and southern
bank.
So it's one quick way to do that.
And you could see that it could actually similarly do something like this for this previous problem.
What are the top five states.
So again many many multiple ways to do this and it kind of depends on what your style of working with
panaceas.
So next question is how many banks has the State Bank of Texas acquired How many of them were actually
in Texas.
So let's do this.
To do that you would ask banks get the acquiring institution column said equal to state bank of Texas
and then pass that into banks run that and this will get you back to the data frame where State Bank
Texas happens to be the acquiring institution and we can see here that only one of them happens to be
in Texas Dallas Texas.
The other two are in Chicago which is kind of interesting.
So we'll continue along.
Now what is the most common City in California for a bank to fail in.
Let's kind of break this down.
First we need to do is make sure that the list the banks we get back are actually in California.
So I'll say banks where banks s t is equal to the California Kotas just CA and then sent back all the
banks that are in California.
But you'll notice here that there's multiple cities.
So I'm going to do is group them by city.
So say group by city and then I'm going to count how many there are.
So now we get back this data frame which is all the banks in California route by city and then count
how many instances there are.
So we can see here that there's 1 1 2 4 et cetera.
So in order to not have to scroll down and do this manually what we could do is just sort the valleys
off of this so I could say sort values by bank name and then we'll say sending is equal to false
run that and then I can see the top on right here is Los Angeles.
So that's the city in California with the most failed banks.
And if you just wanted that one you could at the end of this say something like head one and that just
returns Los Angeles which is how I did get this answer right here.
Again many ways you could have done this.
You could also work to value accounts to kind of simplify this but hopefully this show you can up all
the steps that we're doing here.
So our next question was how many banks don't have the word bank in their name.
So let's show you how you can do that.
One way you could do it is by saying banks and then we're going to say bank name.
So this gives me a series of all the banks and I want to know which of these don't have the word bank
their name.
So I'm going to do the following.
I'm going to apply lambda expression weren't going to pass in that name which is the bank name.
And then I'm going to check is bank not in name.
So then if I run this I'll get back a series of bullying values false false true etc. and then what
I can do just off of this is say summit and it will give me back the number 14.
All right.
And the next question was how many banks name start with the letter S.
So that's going to be a pretty similar problem.
We're going to do is say banks and then grab the bank name column and then I'm going to apply the and
I want to return where the very first value here uppercase is equal to uppercase S and you can do the
same thing with lower and lower case s.
So if you get that you end up getting something that looks like this.
So false false false true.
So then what you could do is you could either then just ask for the value counts and then count where
this is true.
See a fifty three cases of this being true which means where name zero that is equal to s.
Or we could also do is like we did before.
Take the sum of this and you get back 53.
Next question was how many values are above the number 20000.
So you could just say banks where Sir is greater than 20000 that returns back this and then after that
you could just take the sum.
And again you could add value counts there as well as 4:17.
Next was how many banks consist of just two words.
First Bank and Bank of Georgia.
So you can do that is the following.
This one gets a little creative with the lambda expressions.
So say bank think name and we are going to apply the following.
I'll say Lamda taken the name and give me back I'm going to split the name.
So now I have a list and then off of that I'm going to check the link for this list.
Once I've done that I can check a fit equals two.
And that should return back trues and falses that's returning true or the length of that list.
So sample first bank split is going to be first comma Bank and Bank of Georgia is going to bank George
is going to be bank of Georgia etc..
So and then as we've done before I can just take the sum of this and it turns back 114.
Now the bonus question so the bonus question is how many banks closed in the year 2008.
It's a lot better it's work with time series data.
But if you take a look at our banks data frame by saying info you'll notice that the closing date and
updated day date time objects are just objects so essentially as in the case that they're strings.
So that means we can't do any fancy date time manipulations with them.
So what we're going to do instead is work with them with strings.
Let's take a look at the head of our bank's data frame one more time and then notice we have closing
date an updated date and it looks like the last two digits here are the last two elements or characters
of the string happened to be the year.
So we're going to be looking for the string 0 8 and one by string I mean just 0 8 in quotes.
So let's try that logic.
I'm going to say banks closing dates and I'm going to apply the following lambda expression I'm going
to taken the dates as a string and then using dates negative to Colan which means go back to space's
from the end of the string and then get me everything to the end.
Check if that is equal to the string 0 8 and then after that one I'm going to do is take the sum of
it and that returns back 25 banks.
That happens to be failed and the year 0 8 and you can kind of experiment this so many banks failed
in 0 7.
So many banks failed in 0 9 and there's a big jump after the 2008 financial crisis.
Now there is a better way to do this.
It has to do with date time objects.
The weak do that is by using PD to date time which are going to learn a lot more about later on.
And you could pass in banks closing date column and this actually returns back date time object for
each of these.
And that means you could do something like the following of this.
You could say apply and you'll land the expression and make a lot more sense you just pass some object
and then ask for the year out where the year happened to be equal to 2008 and then off of that you could
take some of this and that would also return 25.
So we're going to learn a lot more about how to deal to date time in a feature section of the course.
OK.
That's it for the exercises.
I hope they were pretty challenging the ones that should have been the most challenging are these ones
with the land the expressions that gets you to really think about this especially if you have to do
it on one line.
If you just pass on a function here becomes a lot easier.
But thinking about how to break down the idea into a single line land expression really test your knowledge
of land expressions in Pandas.
Don't worry if you are able to get these right away these are definitely a lot more challenging and
we won't have to do them that much during the financial portion of this course.
OK.
If you have any questions feel free to post them to any forums.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next section of the course.